[<<< Previous](DHRIphil.md) | [Next >>>](2019.md)


# Background on Digital Humanities Research Institute (DHRI)
## CUNY 2018
The [Digital Humanities Research Institute (DHRI)](http://dhinstitutes.org/) was  a ten-day residential workshop held from June 11–20, 2018, hosted by Graduate Center Digital Initiatives and The Graduate Center, CUNY. The goal was that participants would develop core computational research skills through hands-on workshops, explore interdisciplinary digital humanities research and teaching with leading DH scholars, and begin developing versions of the DHRI for their own communities. 
* [List of workshops for DHRI@CUNY 2018 ](https://github.com/DHRI-Curriculum) 
* [More about DHRI@CUNY](http://dhinstitutes.org/about.html)
* [More on DHRI structure](https://github.com/DHRI-Curriculum/guide/blob/master/sections/style-guide.md) 

## CUNY DHRI philosophy 
Short courses — or “bootcamps” — that last anywhere from one day to two months are an increasingly popular way to offer intensive training in digital tools and skills over a short period of time; however, these courses are resource-intensive to run, reach a limited audience, and rarely offer ongoing support. As part of a commitment to building a vibrant community of scholars who make critical use of technology in their teaching and research, the CUNY Graduate Center ran three week-long institutes between 2016 and 2017. These offered a combined 100 hours of instruction on digital research methods to more than 100 students, faculty, staff, and librarians across the CUNY system. Demand for foundational digital research skills remains high, as we have had to turn away as many participants for each institute as we are able to accept.

We believe that all participants are experts in something, but none are experts in all areas. By fostering a collaborative, interdisciplinary environment where humanities research questions, methods, and values are most significant, we work to build a cooperative learning experience. Building on three years of leading successful interdisciplinary Digital Research Institutes at the highly diverse City University of New York, we have established an approach that leverages participant’s strengths, disciplinary interests, and research interests. Students work at round tables to encourage social interaction, conversation, and collaboration, and significant time is spent addressing questions about the appropriateness and consequences of digital methods, ethical concerns, project proposal development, and presentation of digital scholarship to multiple audiences.

DHRI emphasizes foundational skills because we believe that it is the most effective path toward enabling digital humanities researchers to become self-teachers and mentors in their own right. Many bootcamp-style intensives prioritize instrumental outcomes, such as whether students can “write a for loop” or create a website. While these results are desirable, we find that students who know how to use the command line, read technical documentation, and reason about systems are more self-sufficient and better prepared to approach technology (and technical rhetoric) with a critical eye. This leads to second-and third-order effects as students teach themselves and teach others, and also provides a common conceptual vocabulary and skill set that serves as a basis for forming strong collaborations in the future. 
[Closing Remarks: Digital Humanities Research Institute, June 2018 by Lisa Rhody June 16, 2019](https://www.lisarhody.com/closing-remarks-digital-humanities-research-institute-june-2018/)

## Pedagogical approach
* "The DHRI curriculum places great emphasis on foundational technical skills, and roughly one-third of all sessions at the Institute could be described as foundational. ... The difference between an instrumental approach and a foundational approach is often not immediately appreciated by participants, but over time they begin to change their minds. Although an instrumental approach satisfies a researcher’s most immediate need, a foundational approach takes into consideration the long term impact that learning core skills will have for the future professional and research needs of the scholar."
* [DHRI: Notes toward our pedagogical approach by Lisa Rhody, June 17, 2019](https://www.lisarhody.com/dhri-notes-toward-our-pedagogical-approach/)

## DHRI structure 
* "Three structural elements are important for an effective DRI session: scoping, scaffolding, and purpose. Scoping is the art of choosing what—and especially what not—to include in a session. Scaffolding is the process of building later skill development on prior skill development. Purpose provides an answer to the participant who asks, "Why should I care about this?"
* [More on DHRI structure](https://github.com/DHRI-Curriculum/guide/blob/master/sections/style-guide.md) 


# Schedule for 2018

 * [Schedule](https://github.com/SouthernMethodistUniversity/previous/blob/master/images/2018schedule.png)


# The DHRI Pedagogy Showcase
* "Expanding Communities of Practice: With generous support from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), GC Digital Initiatives along with the GC Digital Fellows cultivate expanded communities of DH practice through professional development workshops, an inclusive pedagogical approach, and curricular materials for teaching foundational digital skills.
[**The DHRI Pedagogy Showcase highlights all of the various institutes that the 2018 DHRI cohort conducted**](https://ach.dhinstitutes.org/)

[<<< Previous](DHRIphil.md) | [Next >>>](2019.md)

-----

[Return to introduction](https://github.com/SouthernMethodistUniversity/previous)



