[<<< Previous](2019.md) | [Next >>>](2021.md) 

# DHRI@SMU 2020: Workshops

# The pedagogical logic of each workshop session, and how we expect them to build on each other 

* The goal of DHRI is to create a pipeline, so you know what next steps you want to take or what partners you want to seek out. There is a focus on foundational understanding, so you know what questions you want to ask. 

    * What are the fundamental conceptual understandings/frameworks needed for: 
        * Computational thinking? 
        * Humanities thinking? 
        * Computation humanities/digital humanities? 
        * Collaborative work in the Humanities/interdisciplinary work?
    * What does each workshop do? How does the next one build on it?

* ***Introductions to communities of practice and what is Digital Humanities?*** How do you determine what kinds of DH you want to do, and what skills does that type of DH require in terms of your skill building *or* what partners do you then need to seek out. No DH project is an island! (Unless maybe it is a veeeeeeery small island.) 

* **Coding is an introduction to the structure of computers, text editors and their logic.**     
    * Introduces conceptualization/helps to understand directory structure. 
    * Helps understand how scripts work, so when you set up tools in the future, you can set them up to be useful for what you are trying to do. 
    * The goal is that when you are setting up environments in something like Rstudio (and it asks you about regrex), you can make informed choices about the settings. 

* **Data literacies.** ["Data literacy includes statistical literacy but also understanding how to work with large data sets, how they were produced, how to connect various data sets and how to interpret them.”](http://datajournalismhandbook.org/1.0/en/understanding_data_0.html). When we talk about data in the humanities, what do we mean? Big? Smart? Clean? Messy? 
 
* **Python** is one of the common languanges used in DH, used for a wide range of tasks, including collecting and analyzing data in a variety of formats. We will go trhough how to get started in Python, using libraries and how you can continue to grow your skills after DHRI. 

* **Tools.** Understanding what data you need, and what you want to do with that, allows you to determine if you need a specific script/library package, or if you can use a DH tool for your specific question. 
    * When a tool or program (such as even Zotero or Voyant) asks you to set up an environment or choose a specific setting, you are making choices that will shape your results. 
    * When you are setting up your tools, questions are being asked that will shape the answers/results you get. If the set up questions don't make sense, you will have a better sense of what expertise you want to seek out to help you choose. 
             * *Note:* Skills in programming or tools only grow when you are using them to complete a project (skill building is usually project-based).

* **Access.**  When accessing or creating datasets; there are many considerations, including copyright, licensing, and ethics.

* In the closing **Project Planning and Project Lab** sections, we will work on applying what we have discussed to your specific research questions and projects. 

* To build a complete project or thorough expertise is beyond the scope of this institute, but we want to help you build the foundation, and perhaps even an outline of your goal. We want to help you get to a point where you are comfortable figuring it out (stack exchange) or, when you know you have a question, how to phrase it and find the expertise you want to draw upon (Community of Practice).

# Schedule for 2020

 * [Schedule](https://github.com/SouthernMethodistUniversity/previous/blob/master/images/2020schedule.pdf)


## Instructors for DHRI@SMU2020
* [Rafia Mirza, Humanities Librarian](http://guides.smu.edu/prf.php?account_id=142826)
* [Jonathan McMichael, User Experience Librarian](http://guides.smu.edu/prf.php?account_id=104877)
* Joanna Russell Bliss, Research and User Experience Intern
* [Eric Godat, Data Science Research Applications Developer](https://www.smu.edu/OIT/research)
* [Aren Cambre, Director, Web Application Services](https://www.smu.edu/OIT/research)

## Participant cohort for DHRI@SMU 2020
* *SMU*
* Lourdes Molina,Senior Lecturer of Spanish, World Languages and Literatures
* Gizem	Arslan, Lecturer of German, World Languages and Literatures
* Constantin Icleanu, Lecturer of Spanish, World Languages and Literature
* Adam Neal, Asst. Director (Research) Office of Engaged Learning  
* Jennifer Ebinger, Director, Office of Engaged Learning  
* Camille McCallum, Program Specialist for Entrepreneurship, Office of Engaged Learning 
* Jorden Terrazas, Office of Engaged Learning 
* Talia Weltman-Cisneros, Lecturer of Spanish, World Languages and Literatures
* Leslie Fuller, Bridwell Library
* *Texas Woman's University*
* Beatrice Downey, Graduate Student LIS 
 * *Oregon State University* 
* Joel Zapata, Professor 
* *University of Texas Arlington*	
* Paul Ruiz-Requena, Graduate student, History

[<<< Previous](2019.md) | [Next >>>](2021.md) 
-----
[Return to introduction](https://github.com/SouthernMethodistUniversity/previous)


